---
layout: post
title: "My First Internship"
description: ""
category: summation
tags: [internship]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
My first internship was a great experience. It ends in last month, but I've finally got time to look back on that period of time now. The company I worked for is DataXu, a nice start-up based in Boston which is specialized in real time bidding system. It's a friendly company in that it's doing everything to make employeeds feel at home and to keep good people. 
<!--more-->

The company is expanding rapidly, now having over 200 employees around globe. The Boston headquater had two floors when I was there. I sat on the fifth floor, where I could have a good view of the sky through the window, sometimes one or more seagulls were walking on the roof of the building across the street. 

BL is my director, a smart Australian woman who got her PhD from University of Cambridge. She is very slender, and always smiles when talking and responds very fast. It turns out she is a good runner, and had run several marathons before. SM is an Indian guy who joined DataXu very early and helped developed the early campaign classifier system. He mentored me when BL was on vacation in Australia. SM is pretty serious at work, but he is glad to help out when you ask him any questions. SA is another Indian guy in our team and came to Boston almost the same time as I did. He is really patient and can explain things very clearly. I asked him many questions about how the company functions when I first came here. He mentored me as well on my project. SS is from Moldova, quite a queer bird and got her Bachelor only in one year. She has a lot of wired habits, including as I've found so far: not picking up calls from anyone but only her husband, keeping to herself, highly sensitive to taste, sound.. anything that you can feel. However, she is a very sweet lady and quite humorous. GC is a yound lady from Lebanon and graduated from MIT. She is really helpful, I still remember she reached out to me when I first came to the company and asked if I need any help. She is also pretty funny and it's always pleasant speaking with her. Lastly, YB is the other intern here from MIT who came in late June. He is from Israel and very interested in other countries' culture, especially Chinese, Indian. I once visited his house where his wife, his dog and he live. This is really a warm team.

My project was on visual aspect of creatives (I won't disclose any details here), it goes well but came up with lots of problems and difficulties. Thanks to my director and colleagues, I've cracked them one by one, though the project was inconclusive at last, but at least a frame/foundation was built. Working in a company and in a university lab is definitely very different, in the lab, you are conquring a problem no one knows the solution and no one knows what's gonna happen, which is not predictive. Besides, time in the lab is flexible, you can schedule on your own though sometimes advisor might push you. Whileras working in the company is more predictive, we are clear of what the problem is and somewhat know what the solution should be and somewhat confident that it might work eventually, though something unpredictable might happen. Also time in the company is not that flexible as in university, you go to work at a certain time and get off work after you finish one day's work. You concentrate on your work in the company without worrying about your work after you go back home. 

Industry is more accomplishments driven, you need to see the profit after you invest your time and money. Everything is well planned here, usually a planning meeting is scheduled every two weeks to track how we are doing in the past and what should be done in the next sprint. When prolems come up, solutions need to be proposed shortly and decisions have to be made correctly and quickly, otherwise the cost is unimaginable. Teamwork within a samll team, or among several teams plays a very important role in moving the company forward, unimpeded and agile communication need to be ensured.  *End*